---
title: "Christmas: The real Saint Nicholas and remembering Generosity"
date: 2021-12-01
summary: Every year sees a new batch of Christmas movies get released. One of them this year is Netflix’s “A Boy Called Christmas.” It purports to tell the story of how Christmas came to be due to the heart and work of a young boy named Nicholas and the magical elves of Elfhelm. It’s a pleasant enough movie, but the only thing about it that’s even sort of based in fact is that today’s Santa Claus is derived from stories about a man named Nicholas.
---

The real St. Nicholas was born in present-day Turkey. Orphaned at an early age, he was adopted and raised by his uncle, who was a bishop of the church. Nicholas followed in his footsteps and was elected bishop of Myra (also in what is now Turkey) in 317 AD.

Stories of Nicholas’ kindness to the poor would eventually go on to be known throughout Christendom. The most famous story involves a poor man having three daughters, but no dowry to give any of them. Without a dowry, the girls had no hope of marriage, and thus faced a likely future of slavery or prostitution. Hearing of their plight, the kind bishop, under cover of night, dropped three small bags of gold coins into the home. Sometimes it’s said that those bags fell or were placed intentionally into stockings drying by the fire. Regardless, the young ladies were able to marry and thus rescued from lives of disgrace and shame.

While Nicholas’ charity and giving is why his name became such a fixture at Christmas, the faith that motivated him toward such generosity is the more important part of his story.

In fact, “jolly” was probably not a word anyone would have used to describe Nicholas in 325. Because it was in that year that the church called the first church-wide council, which was to be held in the city of Nicaea. The issue at hand were the teachings of a man named Arius, who was developing a fairly sizeable following. The problem was that Arius’ teaching denied the divinity of Jesus. He rejected the biblical teaching of Jesus being part of the eternal Godhead, maintaining that Jesus was a creation of the Father. He was like God, but not the same. It was in direct refutation of Arius that the council included the word “homoousious,” or “same substance.” In English it’s the part of the creed where we state that we believe Jesus to be, “of one substance with the Father.” He really, truly is and eternally has been God.

Anyway, Nicholas was a part of this council, and not just as a passive bystander. At one point, according to legend, he grew so upset about what Arius was saying that up and socked him in the face. As a consequence, he was stripped of his position and thrown in jail overnight. However, by morning Nicholas had calmed down, publicly repented for his actions, and was restored to office.

Today the story of Nicholas’ actions are sometimes played for laughs, as a humorous contrast to how his namesake character is often portrayed. However, to me it shows just how serious Nicholas was about matters of the faith. And, perhaps particularly at Christmas, it serves as a reminder of how big of a miracle that little child placed in the manger was. A picture containing text

Description automatically generatedThat baby born of Mary is so much more than a reason to give presents. He is so much more than the most important person to ever live. He is, truly, Immanuel, God with us. In Jesus the eternal, divine Word was made flesh to dwell among us in order to save us for our sins. St. Nick believed it so much he was willing to literally fight for it. May we believe it enough to never lose sight of what is of utmost importance this or any Christmas.

Pastor Jeremy

### St. Paul’s Discipleship

|Date                |Attendance |Offering |Missions|
|--------------------|-----------|---------|-|
|10-31               |69         |2062.00  ||
|11-07               |71         |2896.00  ||
|11-14               |77         |2491.00  ||
|11-21               |74         |2786.50  ||
|11-24               |14         |330.00   ||
|11-28               |88         |2135.75  ||
|**Ladies Restroom** |           |50.00    ||

### Needing Our Continuing Prayer

* Alma Brucker
* Terry Colston 
* Stacie Hensley
* Dr.Jim May [cousin of Pat Wahls]
* Carla Nobis [at Good Samaritan Home
* Cheryl Poppe, [sister-in-law of Loren and Joy]
* Donna Price [Ramona Schuler’s sister]
* Dick Rhoda
* Roger and Janet Seeman
* Roger Shiflett [at the Nursing Home in El Paso]
* Jalene Wollford [grade school student at St. Mary’s, Pontiac]
* Helen and Mark Zeug [friends of Roger & Pat Wahls]
 
**Please notify Joy** if anyone could be removed from the Prayer List.

### Holy Acts & Rites of The Church

**Tom and Patty Kahle** have transferred their membership to St. John’s Lutheran Church in Bloomington IL. We ask God to bless them in their new fellowship.

**Men’s Breakfast** will be held at the Chenoa Family Restaurant on Thursday, December 16th  and 30th at 8 AM. The breakfasts will be held every other Thursday.  Mark your calendar.

**Bake-less Bake Sale** It is time once again for the Ladies of the Church’ Bake-less Bake Sale. The Ladies sponsor a seminary student throughout the year by sending monthly checks. Our adopted seminary student this year is Joshua Dub. His wife, Michaela, is a second year Deaconess Student and Joshua is going into his fourth year of the MDiv program. The Ladies also provide meals for the families at a funeral and send monies for the community Thanksgiving baskets. You can place your donation in the Sunday offering marked—Ladies or give it to Judy Bertsche or mail it to Judy Bertsche, 27651 East 2700 North Road, Chenoa IL 61726.

#### Special Services for the rest of 2021 are as follows:

Advent Service - December 8 – 6 & 8 PM

Christmas Eve – 6 & 8 PM

Christmas Day – 10 AM

#### Special Offerings

Advent – 1/3 Youth; 1/3 VBS; 1/3 Fort Wayne Seminary

Christmas Eve – Debt Retirement

Christmas Day – Home

Lent - 1/3 Youth; 1/3 VBS; 1/3 St. Louis Seminary

Easter - Debt Retirement

Note: If there is no VBS, those offerings will be given to the Hope Crisis Pregnancy Center

*The ADVENT and CHRISTMAS EVE services will be as the Sunday Services. The EARLY service will be MASK REQUIRED and the later service will be optional. Christmas Day worship service is a mask optional service and not completely masked per the Chairman of the Elders.*