---
title: Nothing Gold Can Stay
date: 2022-02-01
summary: In the midst of all that fades we have the assurance of Christ, God who is always (and will always) stay with us, and one day bring us into a world that will never fade.
---
In a poem that takes its title from the last line, Robert Frost wrote:

> Nature's first green is gold,
  Her hardest hue to hold.
  Her early leaf's a flower;
  But only so an hour.
  Then leaf subsides to leaf.
  So Eden sank to grief,
  So dawn goes down to day,
  Nothing gold can stay.

What Frost is saying in these eight lines is that nothing in this world that is golden or green stays that way. Nothing new, nothing beautiful, nothing that is full of life remains in that state forever.

All those things that are beautiful and precious, in time, passes away.

Winter is a reminder of this truth. The temperature is cold. The colors are dull. Even snow that looks so pure and white as it falls becomes gray and dirty as it gets plowed, driven over, and walked on.

That can reflect what’s happening in people’s lives—our lives. Our prayers in this season of winter are filled with petitions for God’s help for those suffering with all manner of afflictions. 

Through illness and injury some are hospitalized. Others are recovering from surgeries. Some struggle to come to terms with an unexpected diagnosis from their doctor. Others manage chronic conditions. Others face loneliness in nursing homes.

Beyond that, we face more than physical pain and loss. Our lives are diminished by fractures in relationships with people around us. Depression, stress, and exhaustion can all take their toll.

In reflecting on these kinds of circumstances, Dale Mayer, the former president of the St. Louis seminary, has written: "It’s important to see these sunless days in terms of our relationship with God. The earthly situation that stresses you is also a spiritual exercise that can strengthen you.

"Now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith—more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire—may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ." (1 Peter 1:6-7).

It is true that in this world "nothing gold can stay." Yet in the midst all that fades, we have the assurance that in Christ we have a God Who stays with us, and Who will finally bring us from this world that is passing away into one that remains new and green and fresh and gold forever.

In Christ,

Pastor Jeremy

## NEEDING OUR PRAYERS

* Shirley Beitz
* Alma Brucker
* Stacie Hensley
* Richard and Mary Therese Keast *(Kathy Trachsel’s brother has had knee surgery and now has
some complications)*
* Dr.Jim May *(cousin of Pat Wahls)*
* Carla Nobis *(at Good Samaritan Home)*
* Pam Norris
* Donna Price *(Ramona Schuler’s sister)*
* Dick Rhoda
* Roger and Janet Seeman
* Roger Shiflett *(at the Nursing Home in El Paso)*
* Jalene Woolford *(grade school student at St. Mary’s, Pontiac)*
* Helene and Mark Zeug *(friends of Roger & Pat Wahls)*

**Please notify Joy if anyone could be removed from the Prayer List.**

## ST. PAUL DISCIPLESHIP

|Date      |Attendance |Offering |Missions|
|----------|-----------|---------|--------|
|1-02      | 47        | 1545.00 | 5.00   |
|1-09      | 54        | 2105.00 | 20.00  |
|1-16      | 57        | 2317.00 |        |
|1-23      | 59        | 1518.00 |        |
|1-30      | 79        |         |        |
|**Ladies Restroom** |     | 50.00   |        |

Scripture speaks about the church in relational terms. It says that we are members of one family, brothers and sisters united in Christ. Sometimes within families we’ll go long stretches of time without seeing or speaking to one another. It isn’t due to any sort of conflict or disagreement, but just the reality that sometime life gets
busy and it slips our minds. When that happens, we make a point to send a text, make a call, or set up a time to get together. It’s no different in the family of God.

If there’s a brother or sister you haven’t seen or heard from in a while, perhaps it’s time. Consider reaching out and asking how they’re doing. Let them know you’ve been thinking of them and that they’ve been missed. Maybe it will serve as the nudge that brings them back to worship.

Maybe it won’t. What we want to do, most of all, is let the members of our family know that there are people here who care about them.

**Men’s Breakfast** will be held at the Chenoa Family Restaurant on Thursday February 3rd and 17th at 8 AM. The breakfasts will be held every other Thursday. Mark your calendar.

**Shrove Tuesday –** come learn about the meaning of Mardi Gras, Tuesday, March 1st, 5 PM.

Enjoy an evening with family and frieds at a **Pancake dinner at 6 PM.** There will be games for young and old. Sign up sheet in the narthex.

The next **book club will be meeting Thursday, March 10th 6:30** at the church. We will be reading Olive Kitteridge by Elizabeth Strout, winner of the Pulitzer Prize. Olive is a retired school teacher living in the small town of Crosby Maine, and the 13 short stories comprising the book intertwine Olive. Who says you have
to like the main character. Or do you? 

If you have any questions, contact Liz Easley.

**Preschool Screening** dates for Prairie Central Schools (Chatsworth) is February 9 and 10 (phone
number 815 635-3555) and Prairie Central (Fairbury) is February 16 and 17 (phone number 815
945-2971).