---
title: Our Hope in Christ
date: 2022-06-01
docFile: 2022-06.docx
summary: Today, as a sort of devotional thought continuing on that theme of Christian comfort, I’d like to share a couple excerpts from Luther.
---

## From the Pastor

On the Sunday of the Ascension, we looked at the question of "Where is our hope?" The sermon used some quotes from a sermon Martin Luther preached on the Ascension in 1534. Today, as a sort of devotional thought continuing on that theme of Christian comfort, I’d like to share a couple excerpts from another one of his sermons, preached in 1532. The text he was preaching on was John 15:26-16:4

From Luther:

Now there are two kinds of comfort. The first is a worldly comfort, which is false and counterfeit, because it directs a person to rely on material goods, fame, honor, power, and the assistance and sympathy of the high and mighty. You, my disciples, Christ says, "will get no comfort there, but everything will be against you rather than for you; the world will use its power, honor, goods, and wealth to extinguish you. Don’t be alarmed that you don’t have this kind of comfort. It is at best nothing more than miserable, poor, uncertain comfort; its relief is temporary, only until ravaging plague, feverish head, and bellyache come along, and then there is no longer any comfort.

I, however, will give you a different type of Comforter, the Holy Spirit, who will comfort you when you are frightened and discouraged, miserable and wretched, forsaken both by other people and by your own hearts. That is why the Holy Spirit carries the name, because he is a true Comforter who does not fail. Where there is sorrow and affliction, that’s where you find the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. The devil is a rogue spirit and a deceiver, but the Holy Spirit is a Comforter.

Jesus gives the Holy Spirit yet another name and calls him the Spirit of truth, by which he wishes to say that the Holy Spirit whom I will send from the Father bears the name because he in very truth is the Comforter. His not like comforters of the world, in whom there is no truth or substance, but his comfort is genuine, eternal, perpetual comfort, without falsehood and lies, nor does it deceive…

In what way, then does the Holy Spirit comfort? The Lord says, "He will witness of me."… He won’t give you a thousand or more dollards like the world, but he will witness of me and enable you to say, "When everything is gone—wife and child, house and property, goods and honor, yes, even body and life—still, Jesus Christ, who for my sake became man, died and rose again, has ascended into heaven to the right hand of the father…If that is true, of what should I be afraid?"

All depends upon our embracing and clinging to this comfort, stating, "I believe in Jesus Christ who died for me, and I know that the Holy Spirit, who is called witness and Comforter, preaches and witnesses of no one other than Christ, in order to strengthen and comfort all who sorrow throughout Christendom. I will cling to this and accept no other comfort."

{{< calendar "june-22.jpg" Resize "600x r90 webp q80" >}}

## NEEDING OUR PRAYERS

Shirley Beitz
Alma Brucker
Stacie Hensley

Dr.Jim May *[cousin of Pat Wahls]*
Carla Nobis *[at Good Samaritan Home]*
Elaine Rhoda 
Ramona Schuler 
Jalene Woolford *[grade school student at St. Mary’s, Pontiac]*
Helene and Mark Zeug *[friends of Roger & Pat Wahls]*

Please notify Joy if anyone could be removed from the Prayer List.

## ST. PAUL DISCIPLESHIP

| Date            | Attendance | Offering | Mission |
|-----------------|------------|----------|---------|
| 05-01           | 59         | 3977.00  | 10.00   |
| 05-08           | 82         | 2282.45  |         |
| 05-22           | 66         | 2926.00  | 10.00   |
| 05-29           | 61         | 2910.00  |         |
| Ladies Restroom |            | 50.00    |         |


## Announcements

**On Sunday, June 12**, we are having a "Grubby Sunday." We invite you to come to church that morning dressed to get, well, grubby! Immediately following worship we will have a list of things to help clean and tidy up our facilities both indoors and outdoors. 

We have a few people who do a lot of work keeping things up, but it's more than they can handle all on their own. Let us give them a hand and help tend to our house of worship so that it can continue being a joyful and beautiful place for us to gather around God's Word.

**Stacey Shrewsbury** will be stepping down as Sunday School Superintendent at the end of the school year. This position is responsible for the Sunday School program (provide curriculum, track attendance, recruit teachers), directs the Children's Christmas service, and organizes Easter Egg Hunt. 

Also, the Sunday School Superintendent meets quarterly with other members of the Church Council. As we have all had to think of ways to do things a bit different with COVID, this position requires creativity, enthusiasm, and desire to serve the youth of the congregation. If interested in this position, or would like more information, contact Stacey Shrewsbury (815-674-5324), or Pastor Latzke.

**We have an opening for Church Council Secretary.** Interested individuals can contact Tom Norris or Pastor.

**On Sunday, June 19**, there will be birthday cake after church as we join Dwight Schuler in celebrating his 70th birthday.  Please plan to stay for cake.   

**LUTHERAN SOFTBALL:** The 2022 Pontiac Church League season will begin 31 May and end with a tournament  in July.  All games are played on Tuesdays and Thursdays, with three games played each evening at 6:15, 7:30 and 8:45 p.m.  

Teams will usually play only one of these games per evening.  All games will be played at Pontiac Rec Plex, south of Pontiac Correctional Center. The league is co-ed and players should be at least 16 years of age. Team colors are green and white. All interested players are to contact Stacy Eilts, First Lutheran, Pontiac (815) 822-1377, or Roger Wahls, St. Paul, Chenoa (815) 848-1415 SOONEST. A schedule will be posted on the bulletin board in the narthex. We need a minimum of 10 COMMITTED players to field a team.

**You can still join Hope Pregnancy Center’s Baby Bottle Project** from Mother’s Day to Father’s Day.  There are baby bottles available at the church.  Drop your spare change, dollars or a check into the bottle and watch it fill to the top!  Then bring the bottle back to church on Father’s Day.  The spare change collected will be used to help babies and mothers across the entire area.  Will you partner with us in this simple way to give hope and save lives?
