---
title: A Prayer For The New Year
date: 2022-01-01
summary: Let's begin the year with prayer together.
---

Heavenly Father,

As a new year has begun for me, please teach me to

*…care more about people and less about money.
…enjoy my work, but refuse to let it enslave me.
…laugh more than I did last year.*

As I live through 2022, help me to hold in memory things that seem all too easy for me to forget

*…that it might well be my last year.
…that there are people counting on me.
…and that you surely have things for me to do.*

LORD, with all the experiences, memories, and habits I have accumulated over the past few years, please help me to

*…shake off the monotony of my life.
…try some new things in this new year.
…mend some broken fences.*

And, Father of Mercies, teach me in this new year the critical importance of lightening up a bit in order that I might

*…enjoy children, sunsets, reading, and long walks with friends
…avoid quarrels and know the joy of being a peacemaker.
…come to 2022 with fewer regrets than brought to 2021.*

I cannot know what the New Year will bring, and for that I am most grateful! But I want your help and strength to

*…eat less junk food.
…discover how to turn off my TV set.
…and exercise and take better care of myself.*

Above all other things, Heavenly Father, I want to be your instrument in this world to

*…lighten somebody’s too-heavy load.
…take away some sad person’s pain.
…and introduce a lost soul to Jesus Christ.*

May all these things and more that with your help I hope to accomplish, give you honor and glory.

Amen

### St. Paul’s Discipleship

|Date      |Attendance |Offering |Missions|
|----------|-----------|---------|--------|
|12-01     |21         |285.00   |        |
|12-05     |62         |2803.00  | 20.00  |
|12-08     |27         |440.00   |        |
|12-12     |80         |3292.01  |        |
|12-19     |69         |2214.00  |        |
|12-24     |83         |14978.00 |        |
|12-25     |17         |420.00   |        |
|12-26     |71         |2331.00  |        |
|**Youth** |           |25.00    |        |

### Needing Our Continuing Prayer

* Alma Brucker
* Terry Colston
* Stacie Hensley
* Chuck Kylander, recently had back surgery
* Dr.Jim May [cousin of Pat Wahls]
* Carla Nobis [at Good Samaritan Home]
* Cheryl Poppe, [sister-in-law of Loren and Joy]]
* Donna Price [Ramona Schuler’s sister]
* Dick Rhoda
* Roger and Janet Seeman
* Roger Shiflett [at the Nursing Home in El Paso]
* Jalene Woolford [grade school student at St. Mary’s, Pontiac]
* Helen and Mark Zeug [friends of Roger & Pat Wahls]

**Please notify Joy** if anyone could be removed from the Prayer List.

**Men’s Breakfast** will be held at the Chenoa Family Restaurant on Thursday January 20th at 8 AM. The breakfasts will be held every other Thursday. Mark your calendar.